Optimisation Tab
================

If the Task has been selected as Geometry Optimisation in the Molecule
Tab, then the options here determine how the geometry optimisation
will proceed.

Runtype Group
-------------

The options in this group determine the type of geometry optimisation that will be carried out.

    * Opt. Coords - this determines the optimisation method that will
      be used. The options are:

          o Z-Matrix - this selects a quasi-Newton rank-2 update
          procedure in internal coordinates. This is the recommended
          method but requires the molecular coordinates to have been
          specified in internal coordinate form and the variables that
          are to be optimised to have been specified.

          o Cartesian - if this is selected the optimisation uses a
          Cartesian-driven update method. The Cartesian geometry
          optimisation cannot be used when searching for a transition
          state or using the Jorgensen/Simmons optimisation algorithm.


    * Locate Transition State - if this checkbox is selected then the
      geometry optimisation will not search for the global minimum,
      but will instead try and determine the geometry of a transition
      state. A transition state search can only be undertaken if the
      z-matrix is in internal coordinate form and the variables that
      are to be optimised have been specified.


Search Procedure Group
----------------------

The options in this group allow the user a certain amount of control
over the implementation of the selected optimisation strategy.

    * Energy evaluations - this number determines the maximum number
      of energy evaluations (geometry optimisation steps) that will be
      permitted.


    * Line searches - this is the maximum number of line searches that
      will be permitted during the optimisation.


    * Convergence Thresh. - this determines the convergence threshold:
      the point at which the geometry optimisation is deemed to have
      converged.


      For a Z-matrix or Transition State Search, this is when:
          o maximum change in variables < Convergence Threshold

          o average change in variables < Convergence Threshold * 2/3

          o maximum gradient < Convergence Threshold * 4/9

          o average gradient < Convergence Threshold * 8/27


      For a Cartesian optimisation, this is when:
          o The maximum component of the gradient is equal to the
          value specified for the Convergence Threshold.


    * Max. Step Size - this determines the largest change that will be
      permitted to be made to variables during the optimisation. If a
      Z-Matrix or Transition State Search is being carried out this
      this number determines the maximum change in bond length in
      Bohrs, or change in bond angle in radians. For a Cartesian
      optimisation the number specifies the maximum permitted change
      in the Cartesian coordinates.


    * Turning Point Accuracy - This option is only applicable to a
      Z-Matrix or Transition State Search and controls the accuracy of
      the search for a turning point during a line search. This value
      should be set between 0.0 and 1.0, with a smaller value leading
      to a more accurate line search.


Jorgensen Group
---------------

If the checkbox is selected it indicates that the Jorgensen/Simmons
quasi-Newton-Raphson minimisation algorithm should be used. This is
only applicable when a Z-Matrix or Transition State Search is being
undertaken.

    * Hessian Update Procedure - this option is only displayed if the
      geometry optimisation is searching for a minimum and not a
      transition state. If displayed it can be used to select whether
      the Hessian update procedure is the default, BFGS, or BFGSX (a
      modified BFGS update procedure with safeguards to ensure
      retention of a positive definite Hessian).


    * Use Powell Hessian Update - this option is only displayed if a
      transition search is being undertaken and determines that the
      Hessian should be updated using the Powell update procedure.


    * Min. Hessian Eigenvalue - the minimum permitted value for a
      Hessian eigenvalue.


    * Max Hessian Eigenvalue - the maximum permitted value for a
      Hessian eigenvalue


    * Max. Jorgensen Cycles - the maximum number of optimisation
      cycles permitted when the Jorgensen algorithm is being used.


    * Use Rational Function Optimisation - this is used to control the
      nature of the steps taken in the search procedure. If RFO is
      selected, a menu is presented that allows the user to select the
      default specification for RRO.

          o ON - only RFO or P-RFO steps will be taken.
          o OFF - Newton-Raphson steps will be taken where
          appropriate, instead of RFO or P-RFO steps.
