Theory Tab

Guess Group

Any SCF calculation requires a guess to be made as to the form of molecular
orbitals or eigenvectors used as a starting point for the iterative process.
The guess menu tool can be used to select between the three main methods
offered by GAMESS.

  * Compute - the guess is calculated using an initial property of the
    molecule. The available options are:
   
      + atoms - the guess is based on concatenating the 1-particle density
        matrices for each of the component atoms of the molecular system.
       
      + atorbs - the starting orbitals are constructed as a concatenation of
        the atomic orbitals of the atoms. This is not generally recommended,
        but is useful for subsequent valence bond calculations and for
        calculations on atoms.
       
      + hcore - diagonalise the 1-electron (core) Hamiltonian. This is the most
        general mechanism available, but is also the least reliable in that the
        resulting MOs may often not exhibit the required ordering.
       
      + minguess - construct and diagonalise a Huckel type matrix. This option
        is limited to minimal basis sets (e.g. STO3G), but in such cases often
        leads to a reliable set of MOs.
       
      + extguess - limited to split-valence basis sets (e.g., 3-21G, 4-31G
        etc.), leading in general to a reliable set of orbitals.
       
  * Dumpfile - the Dumpfile method uses a set of orbitals that have been
    calculated during a previous run of the calculation and stored in the
    dumpfile (which is connected to the GAMESS-UK output stream ed3). The
    orbitals are read from the dumpfile at the section specified by the counter
    tool. If an UHF, GVB or UDFT calculation is performed, two sections will
    need to be specified, one for the alpha orbitals and one for the beta. If,
    for example, the calculation that created the dumpfile was a UHF
    calculation, and the current one is one of RHF, GVB or UDFT, then both a
    and b sections for the current calculation will need to point at the
    section where the orbitals were stored by the foregoing RHF calculation
    (the default for RHF calculations being section1).
   
      + Section a/b - the section where the vectors for the alpha or beta can be
        found.
       
    For an explanation of how to specify the dumpfile for a calculation see the
    File Path Group in the Job Tab.
   
  * GETQ - this uses a set of orbitals from a foreign dumpfile. A foreign
    dumpfile is the dumpfile from a calculation where, for example, the
    geometry of the molecule may be different to the current run, the symmetry
    adapted option was different or a smaller basis set was used. In fact the
    only similarities required to use a dumpfile from a previous calcualtion
    using the GETQ option, is that the ordering of the nuclei presented in the
    z-matrix definition lines be the same for both. If the GETQ option is
    selected, the block and section of the dumpfile where the orbtials were
    written to needs to be specified:
   
      + Block a/b - the block of the dumpfile where the vectors for the alpha or beta
        can be found.
       
      + Section a/b - the section where the vectors for the alpha or beta can be
        found.
       
    For an explanation of how to specify the foreign dumpfile for a calculation
    see the File Path Group in the Job Tab.
   
SCF Options

The group of options here determine the base SCF calculation options as
follows:

  * SCF Method This determines the type of SCF calculation that will be
    undertaken. The available options are:
   
      + RHF - a Restricted Hartree-Fock calculation (closed shell).
       
      + UHF - an Unrestricted Hartree-Fock calculation (open shell).
       
      + GVB - a Generalised Valence Bond calculation.
      + DFT - a Density Functional Theory calculation (closed shell).
       
      + UDFT - an unrestricted Density Functional Theory calculation (open
        shell).
       
      + Direct RHF - perform a RHF calculation but recalculate the integrals as
        needed.
       
      + Direct UHF - perform a UHF calculation but recalculate the integrals as
        needed.
       
      + Direct GVB - perform a GVB calculation but recalculate the integrals as
        needed.
       
      + Direct DFT - perform a DFT calculation but recalculate the integrals as
        needed.
       
      + Direct UDFT - perform a UDFT calculation but recalculate the integrals
        as needed.
       
  * Max. Cycles - this sets the maximum number of SCF iterations that will be
    carried out if the calculation has not already converged or run out of time
    by then.
   
  * Threshold - this specifies the 'accuracy' of the calculation by determining
    when to stop the SCF iterations. This occurs when the value of the tester
    is equal to 10^-n, where n is the value specified in the threshold field
    (the tester value is the largest absolute value of the occupied/virtual
    block of the Fock matrix in the Molecular Orbital basis).
   
  * Bypass SCF - if a previous calculation has been carried out the molecule
    and the resulting vectors saved in the GAMESS-UK dumpfile, selecting the
    bypass options causes these results to be used negating the need for a
    fresh SCF calculation.
   
  * SCF Level Shifters The tools in this group control the level shifters that
    can be used to control the convergence of an SCF calculation. The level
    shifters work by artificially raising the energy of the virtual orbitals E
    Hartrees above the occupied orbitals, thereby artificially stabilising the
    iterative process and improving convergence. The available options are:
   
      + Initial Levelshifter Value - the difference in energy (in Hartrees)
        between the virtual and occupied orbitals for the first n cycles.
       
      + Cycle to change on - the SCF iteration at which the levelshifter value
        will be altered.
       
      + Final Levelshifter Value - the energy difference between the virtual
        and occupied orbitals until the DIIS solver is in operation.
       
Post SCF Options

This is used to select amongst the post-SCF calculations available within
GAMESS-UK. The options are:

  * MCSCF - multi-configuration SCF.
   
  * MP2 - second-order Mo/ller-Plesset perturbation.
   
  * MP3 - third-order Mo/ller-Plesset perturbation.
   
  * CCSD - coupled-cluster single and double substitution.
   
  * CCSD(T) - coupled-cluster single, double and a quasi-perturbative estimate
    for connected triple excitations.
   
  * Direct CI - direct configuration interaction.
   
  * MRDCI - multi-reference single- and double-excitation configuration
    interaction.
   
  * Direct MP2 - as standard MP2 but recalculate the integrals as needed, as
    opposed to keeping them in memory
   
