Properties Tab

The options here define the molecular properties to be calculated by GAMESS-UK.
The upper half of the tab is used to control the graphical options that are to
be plotted. The magnitudes of these particular molecular properties are mapped
to a grid, the properties of which can be specified with the Edit Grid option.
The molecular properties that can be calculated are:

  * Difference Density - this calculates the difference between the total
    electron density associated with a molecule and the sum of the electron
    densities of the atoms which constitute the molecule, but which are assumed
    to have undergone no interactions with each other, and have remained
    undistorted as in the free state. As such, it provides an indication of the
    overall rearrangement of density which occurs when the atoms come together
    upon molecular formation.
   
  * Potential - the value of the electrostatic potential created by the
    electronic distribution and nuclear charge of the molecule.
   
  * HOMO/LUMO - the Highest Occupied Molecular Orbital and the Lowest
    Unoccupied Molecular Orbital.
   
  * HOMOn/LUMOn - the n^th orbital in energy below the HOMO and the n^th
    orbital above the LUMO.
   
  * Charge Density - the electron density associated with the molecule.
   
  * Difference Density - this calculates the difference between the total
    electron density associated with a molecule and the sum of the electron
    densities of the atoms which constitute the molecule, but which are assumed
    to have undergone no interactions with each other, and have remained
    undistorted as in the free state. As such, it provides an indication of the
    overall rearrangement of density which occurs when the atoms come together
    upon molecular formation.
   
  * Potential - the value of the electrostatic potential created by the
    electronic distribution and nuclear charge of the molecule.
   
The options in lower half of the tab determine that GAMESS-UK should calculate
the force constants that determine the vibrational frequencies of the molecule.
This can be done in two ways namely:

  * Finite Difference - this indicates that GAMESS-UK will calculate the force
    constants numerically by taking finite differences of the gradient using a
    one-point formula.
  * Analytic - this option is a combination of tasks, requesting integral
    generation, SCF, gradient evaluation (with additional evaluation of
    derivative Fock operators), integral transformation, solution of the
    coupled Hartree-Fock (CHF) equations, calculation of the two-electron
    second derivative contribution and, finally, determination of the projected
    harmonic frequencies. This approach is generally more accurate than the
    numerical approach, but is only vialable for SCF and DFT wavefunctions,
    together with MP2 closed-shell wavefunctions.
   
    NB: the above options are only applicable if the geometry of the molecule
    has already been optimised in a previous calculation or if an optimisation
    is carried out as part of the current calculation.

Edit Grid

Display the Grid Editor Window
