Density Functional Theory Tab
=============================

If one of the DFT options was selected in the SCF options in the
Theory tab, then the DFT options here will apply.

Functional
----------

The functional tool is used to select the Exchange-Correlation
Functional to be used. Available functionals are:

    * SVWN - Slater, Vosko, Wilk, Nusair functional.

    * BLYP - Becke's gradient-corrected exchange functional with the
      Lee-Yang-Parr gradient-corrected correlation functional.

    * B3LYP - Becke 3-parameter hybrid exchange combined with the LYP
      exchange-correlation functional.

    * B97 - Becke-97 functional.

    * HCTH - Hamprecht-Cohen-Tozer-Handy pure DFT functional.

    * FT97 - Filatov and Thiel functional.


Accuracy
--------

Together, these settings determine the accuracy of the DFT calculation:

    * Grid setting - this determines the accuracy of the Quadrature
      Grid.

          o low - should only be used for preliminary studies; the
          grid is designed to obtain the total number of electrons
          from the density integration with a relative error of 1.0e-4
          per atom.

          o medium - this grid is designed to obtain a relative error
          of less than 1.0e-6 in the number of electrons per atom.

          o high - the grid is designed to obtain a relative error of
          less than 1.0e-8 in the number of electrons per atom.

          o very high - this grid is significantly more accurate then
          the high grid, and is only designed to be used for
          benchmarking calculations.


    * DFT Weighting Scheme - this selects a weighting scheme to
      combine the atomic integration grids to a molecular integration
      grid. Available schemes are:

          o Becke - the original Becke weighting scheme.

          o MHL - the Murray, Handy and Laming weighting scheme. This
          leads to more accurate integrals than the Becke scheme.

          o SSF - the Stratmann, Scuseria and Frisch weighting scheme,
          which seems to be the most accurate for large quadrature
          grids.

          o MHL4SSF - the Stratmann, Scuseria and Frisch weighting
          scheme with screening, but employing the cell function by
          Murray, Handy and Laming weighting scheme with ? equal to 4.

          o MHL8SSF - as above but with ? equal to 8.


Quadrature Types
----------------

The settings here allow the type of angular and radial integration
grid to be specified explicitly.

    * Radial Grid - this determines the settings for the radial
      integration grid. Available options are:

          o default - the default setting will apply.

          o Euler-MacLaurin - the Euler-MacLaurin grid will be
          used. If this option is selected, a tool will be displayed
          that allows the number of gridpoints to be selected.

          o Mura-Knowles - the Mura-Knowles grid will be used. If this
          option is selected, a tool will be displayed that allows the
          number of gridpoints to be selected.


    * Angular Grid - this determines the settings for the angular
      integration grid. Available options are:

          o default - the default setting will apply.

          o Lebedev-Laikov - the Lebedev-Laikov grid will be used. If
          this option is selected, a tool will be displayed that
          allows the number of gridpoints to be selected.

          o Gauss-Legendre - the Mura-Legendre grid will be used. If
          this option is selected, a tool will be displayed that
          allows the number of gridpoints to be selected.


Coulomb Fitting
---------------

Coulomb fitting reduces the cost associated with DFT calculations of
medium sized molecules by avoiding the calculation of 4-center
2-electron integrals. This can be achieved by choosing a functional
without Hartree-Fock exchange and evaluating the Coulomb energy with
an auxiliary basis set. The tools in this group control Coulomb
Fitting.

    * Use Coulomb Fitting - if this box is selected, Coulomb fitting
      is turned on and two additional tools are displayed that allow
      the fitting to be configured:

          o Fitting Basis - Coulomb fitting requires an additional
          basis set for the atoms in the molecule, and the options
          here are used to determine the basis set to be
          used. Available options are:

                + GAMESS - this indicates that the basis set
                specification has been explicitly specified in the
                GAMESS-UK input file.

                + NWCHEM - this indicates that the basis set
                specification has been explicitly specified in the
                GAMESS-UK input file but in NWChem format.


                  The following 4 options indicate that the basis set
                  is not defined explicitly in the GAMESS-UK input
                  file, but is to be loaded from the appropriate
                  library of GAMESS-UK internal basis sets.

                + A1DGAUSS - use the A1-DGAUSS fitting set.

                + A2DGAUSS - use the A2-DGAUSS fitting set.

                + DEMON - use the DeMon fitting set.

                + AHLRICHS - use the fitted basis sets tabulated by
                Ahlrichs and co-workers.

    * Schwartz Cutoff - the number of 3-centre integrals can be
      reduced by neglecting those that are small enough to be
      considered insignificant. The Schwartz inequality is used to
      decide the cutoff point below which integrals are not important,
      with the Schwartz tolerance being set to 10-n, where n is the
      number entered in the box.
