Job Tab

The tools in this tab set up various external atrributes of the GAMESS-UK that
will be run.

Job Group

The tools in this group are used to configure the environment that the
GAMESS-UK job will be run in.

  * Jobname - the name of the GAMESS-UK job. All of the files created by the
    calculation will have whatever jobname has been specified as, as their stem
    unless they are specifically renamed using the tools in the file path group
    (see below).
   
  * Hostname - the name of the host where the calculation is being run. If your
    GAMESS-UK executable is located on your local machine (i.e. the computer
    you are running the GUI on), this should be set to localhost.
   
  * Job Submission - this is not active at present.
   
  * User Name - the UNIX username of the user submitting the job.
   
  * Working Directory - this is used to select the directory where the
    GAMESS-UK input file, and any output files , will be created.
   
File Path Group

The tools in this tab set the names and locations of the files that will be
connected to the various ed streams used by GAMESS-UK.

  * ECP Libraries - ed0 is used to specify the directory containing the
    pseudopotential libraries used for non-local pseudopotential calculations.
    If the specify button is clicked, a text window and browse button will
    appear, which can be used to specify the location of this directory.
   
  * Mainfile (ed2) - this file is used to hold the two electron integrals
    generated by GAMESS-UK. If the keep button is selected, this file will be
    saved in the directory the calculation is run in, with the name specified
    by the jobname tool and the suffix .ed2. If the specify button is selected,
    the name and location can be specifed as desired.
   
  * Dumpfile (ed3) - the dumpfile holds a variety of information including the
    eigenvectors, restart information Hessians, CI-coefficients etc. You must
    save the dumpfile for a calculation if you intend to undertake any
    subsequent calculations based on the results of this calculation. It is
    also vital to specify the dumpfile you wish to use if you are performing a
    calculation that requires any information contained in the dumpfile from a
    previous calculation. It is important to note that the dumpfile from a
    previous calculation will be overwritten with the new values if it is
    specifed here.
   
    If this is the first of a series of calculations and no information from
    previous calculations is requried, the keep button will cause the dumpfile
    for this calculation to be saved in the directory the calculation is
    running in, with the name specified by the jobname tool and the suffix
    .ed3. Alternatively, the specify button can be used to select an arbitrary
    name and location. If the current calculation uses information from a
    previous calculation, then the same applies, but the eigenvector
    information will be read from this file, before the values are overwritten
    with those for the current calculation.
   
  * Tempfile (ed7) - this file is the temporary file used by GAMESS-UK and
    holds various housekeeping information used by the program as it runs.
    Normally this file is located in the directory specified by the GAMESS_TMP
    environment variable, or, failing that, the directory specified by the
    GAMESS_SCR enviroment variable, or, as a last resort, the directory that
    the calculation runs in. If for any reason you believe there may not be
    enough space in any of these directories, or they are located on disks that
    are not fast enough, an alternative location can be specifed with this
    tool. If the keep button is selected, this file will be saved in the
    directory the calculation is run in, with the name specified by the jobname
    tool and the suffix .ed7. If the specify button is selected, the name and
    location can be specifed as desired.
   
  * Foreign Dumpfile (ed14) - this is used to specify the location of a foreign
    dumpfile. For more information about foreign dumpfiles see the GETQ option
    in the Guess Section of the Theory Tab. It is important to note that if a
    file is specified as a foreign dumpfile, it is only read from and not
    written to. If the dumpfile for the current calculation is to be kept, it
    should be specified with the ed3 dumpfile tool described above.
   
    If the specify button is clicked, a text window and browse button will
    appear, which can be used to specify the location of this file.
   
